Added tackle-windup-integration enhancement (#52)
konveyor/enhancements: enhancements/tackle/tackle-windup-integration/README.md

---
title: tackle-windup-integration
authors:
  - "rromannissen"
reviewers:
  - TBD
approvers:
  - TBD
creation-date: 2021-11-19
last-updated: 2021-11-22
status: provisional
see-also:
  -   
replaces:
  -
superseded-by:
  -
---

# Tackle Analysis: Tackle Hub integration with Windup

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [ ] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [ ] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [ ] Test plan is defined
- [ ] User-facing documentation is created

## Open Questions

> - **What would be the integration mechanism between the Application Inventory/Tackle

Author: I wouldn't have anything against that, although I though we had the requirements/user stories more or less ironed out after the meeting with the UI/UX team. Is there anything else you think needs to be added to the user stories/requirements?

> - **What would be the integration mechanism between the Application Inventory/Tackle

Reviewer: In the past, in Tackle, we had user stories defined together with "acceptance criteria" to clearly define when a US would have been successfully done.
This is an example https://issues.redhat.com/browse/TACKLE-8.
This drove the technical design phase (the "How") and also gave a single point of reference to QE while testing.
I think it worked fine to set the expectations for PM, make clear to eng team what to implement and feel QE safe in having properly tested before signing-off.
So for me it would be an approach worth applying again.
@rromannissen does it make sense?
@PhilipCattanach which is perspective on this?

> - **What would be the integration mechanism between the Application Inventory/Tackle

Author: @fabiendupont what's your take on this? Do you also think this is a must to start working on the integration approach?

> - **What would be the integration mechanism between the Application Inventory/Tackle

Reviewer 2: When I look at [TACKLE-8](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/TACKLE-8), it looks like this enhancement is a single user story, that could be formulated like this:

_As an Architect/Migrator, I want to be able to perform an analysis of one or many applications from source code or binaries, and to store the metadata of all the analysis in Tackle Hub, while keeping only the latest report of each application, in order to understand the adjustments required to migrate the application to the selected Kubernetes target platform._

The items under Analysis Configuration (AC) and Analysis Output (AO) look a lot like acceptance criteria for that user story. They describe the expected user experience and outcomes, so QE can verify that they are implemented.

If we only talk about the `What` vs `How`, I think that both approaches are valid and should be considered from different perspectives:

* Resource consumption - On a laptop, the solution must be lightweight and deploy only the absolutely required services. The Tackle Analysis service storage consumption will increase over time (see _Drawbacks_) and storing only the metadata and last report could be sufficient in that scenario. The Windup CLI wrapper is then a good candidate.

* Time - The wrapper uses the existing Windup CLI and exposes an ad-hoc API to monitor the process and store the result. It should be fairly simple and fast to implement and deliver. This would offer a quick integration, until the Tackle Analysis is fully ready to be shipped.

> - **What would be the integration mechanism between the Application Inventory/Tackle

Author: @fabiendupont that makes a lot of sense. Maybe I was being too fine grained with the User Stories (I'm more used to writing requirements in an old fashioned way to be honest...). After @mrizzi pointed out the need for setting some Acceptance Criteria for the User Stories, I was struggling to find something that could work because it felt like the stories we had were somehow atomic and self explanatory. @PhilipCattanach @mrizzi would this work for you instead?

Application Inventory.
- Provide a scalable solution that can run properly on full fledged Kubernetes
clusters or a migrator's laptop.

### Non-Goals

- Design or implement Dynamic Reports, as this is expected on later iterations.
- Integration of the Application Inventory with Git, SVN and Maven, as this is
expected to be available by the time this feature starts implementation.

## Proposal

### Personas / Actors

- **Architect**: A technical lead for the migration project that can create and
modify applications and information related to it. The Architects don’t need to
have access to sensitive information, but can consume it.
- **Migrator**: A developer that should be allowed to run assessments and analysis,
but not to create or modify applications in the portfolio.

### User Stories

#### Analysis Configuration

##### AC001

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to define the source for application analysis:
source code or binary.*

##### AC002

*As an Architect I want to be able to configure if Maven dependencies are analyzed as binaries
 when using source code as source for application analysis.*

##### AC003

> *As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to use Git repositories or as input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to use Git, SVN and Maven repositories as input
```

for an analysis.*

##### AC004

> *As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to upload binaries from my workstation
> as input for an analysis.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to upload one binary from my workstation
as input for the analysis of a single application.*

**Acceptance criteria**

- the dialog to upload appears if the persona selects the `Upload a local binary` in the `Source for analysis` drop-down list
- the dialog to upload must state the maximum allowed size in MB
- the dialog to upload must give an error message if the binary exceeds the maximum size
- the dialog to upload must distill down the set of extensions to the one allowed (jar, war, ear)
- the dialog to upload must have a progress bar to let the user how the uploading is progressing
- the dialog to upload must have the cancel icon to stop an upload
- the dialog to upload must have the delete icon for deleting an already uploaded binary
```

> 

Author: We want to keep the previous user experience we had with MTA in some way as well. It's a great advantage to be able to consume artifacts from source and binaries repositories, especially when dealing with a large portfolio, but sometimes you just need to run a quick analysis on some binaries that you have. Having to go through the setup of a Maven artifact repo to just do that seems cumbersome. We already designed integration with Maven, so if a user has the Maven coordinates of an artifact that needs to be analyzed, we are already covering that.

> 

Reviewer 2: Then longer term option could be a solution. The user uploads the binaries for an application to Tackle Hub. The binaries are stored and exposed through a web server acting as a Maven repository and the analysis tool can get the binaries from it. We have a consistent mechanism from the analysis tool point of view, i.e. Maven repository.

##### AC005

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to select the migration target for
my application.*

##### AC006

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to specify the packages to be analyzed.

> If no packages are specified, all packages must be included in the analysis.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no packages are specified, then all packages identified as 'application packages' will be analyzed.*
```

### User Stories

#### Analysis Configuration

##### AC001

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to define the source for application analysis:
source code or binary.*

##### AC002

*As an Architect I want to be able to configure if Maven dependencies are analyzed as binaries
 when using source code as source for application analysis.*

##### AC003

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to use Git, SVN and Maven repositories as input
for an analysis.*

##### AC004

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to upload one binary from my workstation
as input for the analysis of a single application.*

**Acceptance criteria**

- the dialog to upload appears if the persona selects the `Upload a local binary` in the `Source for analysis` drop-down list
- the dialog to upload must state the maximum allowed size in MB
- the dialog to upload must give an error message if the binary exceeds the maximum size
- the dialog to upload must distill down the set of extensions to the one allowed (jar, war, ear)
- the dialog to upload must have a progress bar to let the user how the uploading is progressing
- the dialog to upload must have the cancel icon to stop an upload

> - the dialog to upload must have the delete icon for deleting an already uploaded binary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the dialog to upload must have the delete icon for deleting an already uploaded binary
- the upload of binary is a mandatory step for each analysis execution. They will not be persisted within the Application Inventory (in iteration #1) for re-use in subsequent analyses.
```

for an analysis.*

##### AC004

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to upload one binary from my workstation
as input for the analysis of a single application.*

**Acceptance criteria**

- the dialog to upload appears if the persona selects the `Upload a local binary` in the `Source for analysis` drop-down list
- the dialog to upload must state the maximum allowed size in MB
- the dialog to upload must give an error message if the binary exceeds the maximum size
- the dialog to upload must distill down the set of extensions to the one allowed (jar, war, ear)
- the dialog to upload must have a progress bar to let the user how the uploading is progressing
- the dialog to upload must have the cancel icon to stop an upload
- the dialog to upload must have the delete icon for deleting an already uploaded binary
- the upload of binary is a mandatory step for each analysis execution. They will not be persisted within the Application Inventory (in iteration #1) for re-use in subsequent analyses.

##### AC005

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to select the migration target for
my application.*

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Set transformation path acceptance criteria:
The primary list of targets will be presented as a series of buttons (panels) that the user can interact with (EAP, Containerization, Jakarta EE, Linux,OpenJDK, Camel, Quarkus, EAP, Spring Boot on RHR).
The EAP target (version 7) will be selected by default with version 6 as the only other selectable value.
Targets can be selected/deselected by clicking on the appropriate button. 
The target button border will show which targets are selected (i.e. which buttons have been pressed).
The icon for each target must be intuitive to understand (the ideal being that for targets that represent upstream projects the official project icon is used) and legal for use within an upstream project.
This list of icons will not include any downstream product icons. 
An analysis can not be invoked unless at least one target is selected. However the user is free to select target(s) via this screen and/or the advanced options.

Target selection via advanced options acceptance criteria:
The Target field will be pre-populated with the target(s) selected via the ‘Set transformation path’. 
The user can enter an additional target(s) from the drop down list of shipped (predefined) targets (a consolidated list of all of the targets used within the shipped rulesets).
The dropdown list will be presented in alphabetical order.
An analysis can not be invoked unless at least one target is selected.

```

##### AC006

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to specify the packages to be analyzed.
If no packages are specified, then all packages identified as 'application packages' will be analyzed.*

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Acceptance criteria:
The user can navigate to the next or previous step in the analysis configuration without entering any package details.
The user can manually add packages.
The user can delete packages.
The package/subpackage names must only contain alphanumeric characters and the period character. 
There will be no validation of overlap, so for example the user could legitimately enter 
mypackage.persistence
mypackage.persistence.jdbc 

```

##### AC007

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to select the migration source for
my application.*

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Acceptance criteria:
The source field is optional. 
The user can enter source(s) from the drop down list of shipped (predefined) sources  (a consolidated list of all of the sources used within the shipped rulesets).
The dropdown list will be presented in alphabetical order.

```

##### AC008

> *As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to include or exclude rules tags to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to 
```

> explicitly define which rules get executed during the analysis*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
see the summary of the analysis configuration before triggering the analysis execution

Acceptance criteria:
It must be possible to see all of the application(s) selected for analysis.
It must be possible to see all of the analysis configuration parameters (target(s), source(s), etc.)
It must be possible to invoke the analysis, cancel or return to editing the analysis configuration. 

```

##### AC009

*As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to provide custom rules for the analysis.*

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### AC010
As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to select an application(s) for analysis

Acceptance criteria:
It must be possible to select an application for analysis.
It will not be possible to select an application that has an analysis status of In progress.

```

> #### Analysis Output

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### AC011
As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to specify which rule tags to be included in an analysis

Acceptance criteria:
It must be possible to select 0, 1 or many rules tags from the drop down list.
The shipped collection of rules tags will be presented in alphabetical order.

#### AC012
As an Architect/Migrator I want to be able to specify which rule tags to be excluded in an analysis
Acceptance criteria:
It must be possible to select 0, 1 or many rules tags from the drop down list.
The shipped collection of rules tags will be presented in alphabetical order.
Validation will ensure that any excluded tags are not specified in the included list (above). 

#### Analysis Output
```

##### AO001

*As a Architect/Migrator I want to get access to the result of the analysis (analysis report)
of each individual application.*

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Acceptance criteria:
For any application within the Application Inventory with an analysis status of Completed it must be possible to invoke an action to access the analysis static reports.
The action is unavailable if the analysis status is not Completed.
The reports will be opened in a separate tab of the browser.
If a new analysis is invoked for a particular application then the static reports for an earlier analysis execution will no longer be accessible.  

```

##### AO002

*As a Architect/Migrator I want to be able to track the specific version of the source code
that has been analyzed.*

##### AO003

*As a Architect/Migrator I want to see metadata about the history of the analyses at a
summary level in terms of number of issues, story points, analysis configuration
(source, target and options), for each analysis execution*

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Acceptance criteria:
For each analysis execution that completes successfully a collection of data will be returned by the analysis process that will be persisted and exposed to the user via the Application Inventory. That data includes the analysis Id, analysis configuration parameters (target(s), source(s), etc.),  total number of story points and number of incidents by category (migration mandatory, migration optional, etc.).
It must be possible to view the analysis history data for any application that has been analyzed. The data will be presented in Analysis Id sequence descending (so most recent to earliest sequence).
The action to view the analysis history will only be available for applications that have at least 1 completed analysis.
Analyses in progress, or failed executions will not be included in the analysis history. 

```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### AE001
As an Architect/Migrator I want to be aware of the status of the most recent analyses execution for each application.

Acceptance criteria:
The analysis status for each application is visible in the Application Inventory.
From the Application Inventory the user can see the status of the last analysis invoked for each application (the relationship between Application to Analysis is 
1 : 0,1).
An analysis can not be triggered if the analysis status is In progress.
An analysis that is In progress can be cancelled.
The cancel action is not available for Analyses that have a status of Completed.
For an In progress analysis the user can find out the number of analysis steps completed and the total number of steps.
To be very clear the visibility of the data will not be limited to the analyses that have been invoked by a particular user. Rather ALL analyses invoked by ALL users.

```
